
# 1. Introduction

This document provides software architecture information, development environment information and optimization guidelines.

For programming examples and for instructions on compiling and running each sample application, see the DPDK Sample Applications User Guide for details.

For general information on compiling and running applications, see the DPDK Getting Started Guide.

## 1.1. Documentation Roadmap
The following is a list of DPDK documents in the suggested reading order:

* <b>Release Notes</b> : Provides release-specific information, including supported features, limitations, fixed issues, known issues and so on. Also, provides the answers to frequently asked questions in FAQ format.

* <b>Getting Started Guide</b> : Describes how to install and configure the DPDK software; designed to get users up and running quickly with the software.

* <b>FreeBSD* Getting Started Guide</b> : A document describing the use of the DPDK with FreeBSD* has been added in DPDK Release 1.6.0. Refer to this guide for installation and configuration instructions to get started using the DPDK with FreeBSD*.

* <b>Programmer’s Guide (this document)</b>: Describes:

  * The software architecture and how to use it (through examples), specifically in a Linux* application (linuxapp) environment
  * The content of the DPDK, the build system (including the commands that can be used in the root DPDK Makefile to build the development kit and an application) and guidelines for porting an application
  * Optimizations used in the software and those that should be considered for new development
A glossary of terms is also provided.

* <b>API Reference</b> : Provides detailed information about DPDK functions, data structures and other programming constructs.

* <b>Sample Applications User Guide</b>: Describes a set of sample applications. Each chapter describes a sample application that showcases specific functionality and provides instructions on how to compile, run and use the sample application.

## 1.2. Related Publications
The following documents provide information that is relevant to the development of applications using the DPDK:

* Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual Volume 3A: System Programming Guide
